<<PackageHeader(qb_device_bringup)>>
<<TOC(4)>>

This package is barely usable alone since it provides only templates to create more structured launch files in the derived packages (cf. [[qb_hand]] and [[qb_move]]).

== Launch files ==
The five launch file templates come in help when loading the description package of a device.
{{{#!wiki caution
Please, use these "macros" whenever is possible to improve '''robustness''', '''readability''' and '''maintenance''' of derived packages.
}}}

=== component_bringup ===
This launch file calls the other templates [[qb_device_description#load_description_template|load_description_template]], [[#controllers_bringup|controllers_bringup]] and [[#control_bringup|control_bringup]] to bringup a control node for a single device without starting [[joint_state_publisher]], [[robot_state_publisher]] and [[rviz]].
==== Parameters ====
Since the only difference w.r.t. the [[#full_bringup|full_bringup]] launch file is the includes of the [[qb_device_description#load_description_template|load_description_template]] rather than the [[#description_bringup|description_bringup]], the parameters are exactly the same as the other a part from `use_rviz` which is not used.

<<Anchor(control_bringup)>>
{{{
#!clearsilver CS/NodeAPI
name = control_bringup
desc = This launch file starts the device control node with the given parameters.
param {
  0.name = control_action
  0.type = string
  0.desc = The type of the control action without the namespace prefix and the "_trajectory_controller/follow_joint_trajectory" suffix (e.g. `foo` if it is `<namespace>_foo_trajectory_controller/follow_joint_trajectory`). The namespace alone is not sufficient since a device can implement several distinct actions.
  0.default = empty string
  1.name = control_duration
  1.type = double
  1.desc = The duration of the control loop, in [s].
  1.default = 0.01
  2.name = device_id
  2.type = int
  2.desc = The device ID, in range [`1`, `128`].
  2.default = 1
  3.name = device_control
  3.type = string
  3.desc = The base package name prefix (without "_control") of the control node (e.g. `qb_device` if it is `qb_device_control`).
  4.name = device_namespace
  4.type = string
  4.desc = The device namespace used to avoid name clashes among same-type devices. It must be the same prefix used in the description because the control node searches for structures with this prefix (e.g. joint names).
  5.name = use_waypoints
  5.type = bool
  5.desc = Selects whether to automatically control the device by looping on the given waypoints. If `true` the waypoints are expected to be stored in the Parameter Server under `~waypoints`.
  5.default = false
  6.name = waypoint_namespace
  6.type = string
  6.desc = The namespace prefix (without "_waypoints.yaml") of the waypoints configuration file (e.g. `my_device` if it is `my_device_waypoints.yaml`). The file must be located in the `config/` subdirectory of the selected `_control` package. In addition, the namespaced joint names inside should be consistent with the ones specified in the description bringup, usually the share the same namespace.
  7.name = waypoint_settings
  7.type = string
  7.desc = The base package name prefix (without "_control") where the waypoint yaml file is stored (e.g. `qb_device` if it is `qb_device_control`).
}
}}}

<<Anchor(controllers_bringup)>>
{{{
#!clearsilver CS/NodeAPI
name = controllers_bringup
desc = This launch file just calls the [[qb_device_control#spawner_template|spawner_template]] to bringup the device controllers including the [[rqt_joint_trajectory_controller]] GUI if requested.
param {
  0.name = controllers
  0.type = string
  0.desc = The list of names of the controllers to be spawned (e.g. `*_trajectory_controller`)
  1.name = controllers_namespace
  1.type = string
  1.desc = The namespace prefix (without "_controllers.yaml") of the controller configuration file, necessary with many devices (e.g. `my_device` if it is `my_device_controllers.yaml`). The file must be located in the `config/` subdirectory of the selected `_control` package. In addition, the joint names inside should be consistent with the ones specified in the description bringup, usually the share the same namespace.
  2.name = controllers_settings
  2.type = string
  2.desc = The base package name prefix (without "_control") where controller settings are stored (e.g. `qb_device` if it is `qb_device_control`).
  3.name = use_controller_gui
  3.type = bool
  3.desc = Selects whether to load joint trajectory controller GUI.
  3.default = false
}
}}}

<<Anchor(description_bringup)>>
{{{
#!clearsilver CS/NodeAPI
name = description_bringup
desc = This launch file packs together the [[qb_device_description#load_description_template|load_description_template]] and the [[qb_device_description#state_publisher_template|state_publisher_template]] to bringup all the device description including [[joint_state_publisher]] and [[robot_state_publisher]]. If specified also starts [[rviz]].
param {
  0.name = device_description
  0.type = string
  0.desc = The base package name prefix (without "_description") where robot models are stored (e.g. `qb_device` if it is `qb_device_description`).
  1.name = device_namespace
  1.type = string
  1.desc = The namespace prefix of joints and links, necessary with many devices (e.g. `my_device` creates a robot model composed by `my_device_joint_...` and  `my_device_link_...` elements).
  2.name = device_urdf
  2.type = string
  2.desc = The name of the [[xacro]] URDF model file to be loaded, without extension (e.g. `qb_device` if it is `qb_device.urdf.xacro.`). The file must be located in the `urdf/` subdirectory of the selected `_description` package.
  3.name = frequency
  3.type = int
  3.desc = The publish frequency in `Hz` of the joint state and the robot state publishers.
  3.default = 100
  4.name = source_list
  4.type = string
  4.desc = The joint state source list for the [[joint_state_publisher]] (including square braces).
  4.default = [joint_states]
  5.name = use_rviz
  5.type = bool
  5.desc = Selects whether to load [[rviz]]. If `true`, searches for the configuration file with the same name as the one specified in `device_urdf` which must be located in the `rviz/` subdirectory of the selected `_description` package (i.e. it is recommended to create a specific file for each robot model). If not specified, uses the default configuration.
  5.default = true
}
}}}

=== full_bringup ===
This launch file calls the other templates [[#description_bringup|description_bringup]], [[#controllers_bringup|controllers_bringup]] and [[#control_bringup|control_bringup]] to bringup a complete control node for a single device.
==== Parameters ====
It provides basically the same configuration parameters as the other launch files a part from `frequency` and `source_list` of the [[#description_bringup|description_bringup]] which are not exported outside.

## CategoryPackage